now the BBC has seen evidence that
doctors nurses and other Hospital staff
were detained beaten and prevented from
carrying out vital Med medical duties
when Israeli forces overran a hospital
in Gaza last month Israel said it
occupied NASA Hospital believing it was
used by Hamas and said several released
Israeli hostages were also held there as
our correspondent W Davis
reports not for the first time in this
war Israeli soldiers have been filmed
standing over stripped and kneeling
detainees in Gaza but these are medical
staff detained after the Israeli Army
overran the NASA Hospital in Han Yunis
most of them are still held
captive for weeks the Medics had
witnessed Israel's military Advance
closing in around their
Hospital the fighting in carus was
fierce thousands of people who'd sought
refuge in the grounds fled under
gunfire what should have been a place of
safety was completely the
opposite one nurse was shot inside a
Hospital operating theater through a
window another person shot at the main
entrance the hospital was Under
Siege on February the 15th after giving
warnings Israeli tank
overran the hospital there were chaotic
scenes as troops took
control patients who'd been unable to
evacuate were moved by Medics from
collapsing
Wards Israel says it found Hamas weapons
also medication which they say supports
accounts from Israeli hostages that they
were held
there in the idf's own footage you can
see that hospital patients had their
hands zip tied detained outside side in
their beds and
wheelchairs this was when troops also
detained the medical personnel more than
50 of them forced to leave their posts
and remove their surgical clothing
Israel says it did so in case there were
concealed weapons and that among the 200
arrested at Nasa were terrorists posing
as
Medics Dr Amir auli had remained at Nasa
throughout the siege before the Israeli
incursion risking her own neck to save
lives as people were shot inside the
grounds she later witnessed what
happened to her fellow
doctors it was tough for us to see how
the doctors who bravely stayed at the
hospital despite the dangers were
stripped and beaten their hands were
tied behind them and they were left in
the Sun for
hours his hand broken in captivity Dr
Ahmed Sabah is one of the very few
Medics to have since been released he
shows the positions they were forced to
adopt for hours and says they were also
tortured they forced us to kneel down
with our eyes
blindfolded there was a pet in the
ground and we thought they would execute
us and bury us death we said our prayers
but they were just intimidating
us
Israel says any abuse of detainees is
against IDF orders and is strictly
prohibited but crucially according to
the hospital manager who dealt with the
Israelis during the raid the Detention
of so many of his staff left his
Hospital woefully short of
doctors eight doctors and 15 nurses were
left treating 250 patients you can
imagine the level of care we could give
with no water or electricity in the
hospital at that point during this time
13 patients and injured people
died the Israeli Army says it operated
within NASA in a precise and focused
Manner and says it provided equipment
enabling it to function and treat
patients but with the war continuing and
at least 46 Medics still detained or
missing the hospital has been closed for
weeks wi Davis BBC News